Miao Liu

Jan 28, 2020

The rapid development of data science in recent decades has brought tremendous changes to people's life, especially those in the developed and developing countries. Nonetheless, every tool we develop for efficiency has pros and cons. Supporters believe that the rise of data science helps people to "repay their debts" and "distribute humanitarian aid." Critiques, however, refute the effectiveness of new approaches and list four problems with the tool.

The promise data science provides includes three aspects. First, people who have access to data science own greater credit score because they are able to repay their debt. Moreover, data science allows people to detect patterns of phone calls, which can determine if a region is wealthy or not. Once we gather enough data, government and international institutions can distribute supplies in a more scientific way. In addition to poverty, data can pinpoint the spread of disease during epidemics. 

Data science does enable human development, but it can also trigger serious pitfalls. Blumenstock suggests that data science, a device capable of solving problems affecting the masses such as inequality, is actually confined to the hands of few. While "digital credit" and microloans offers opportunities for us to borrow money, they ignore that poor people have no way to pay it back. Unfortunately, online records, no matter how accurate they are, can affect people's credibility in reality. Missing payments are likely to prevent the poor from obtaining loans from a bank. Second, data science is too new to be reliable. While traditional methods are less efficient at collecting data, they have experienced corrections and adjustments to yield convincing data. As a new technology, data science make swift progress in generalizing information, but it fails to guarantee the accuracy of the data. Additionally, it is hard for digital data to reach destitution. The goal of data science is to enlarge representation and help the weak, yet people in need are marginalized by the process of data-collection. Lastly, we are left with big data and little regulation. Conventionally, government agencies were responsible for data collection. Such organizations were committed to protecting people's privacy and the precision of data. Now, private institutions take over the job and control the data. Without appropriate legislation, they may sell the data for profit-maximization.

To reduce the disadvantage of new data sources, Blumenstock proposes several measures. Due to the weakness of new data sources, we should take both data sets for evaluation. The combination of data not only improves working efficiency but also decreases marginalization. Further customization stimulates companies to develop different functions. Customers impose demands that promote workers' collaboration. A rise of participation creates an environment of fairness and transparency. Except for cooperation within one company, cooperation among firms should also be encouraged. With the help of experienced data scientists, we can get a thorough understanding about existing problems and figure out ways to solve them.

Every new technology is designed to bring convenience to life. The application of data science is a double-edged sword that must be maneuvered. With great power comes great potential to harm. The benefit of data science can be maximized when its drawbacks are carefully constrained.
