Miao Liu

Feb 4

In his report, Selim Jahan states that human development is a process of enlarging human choices. In order to enhance the choices, there are two sides of it: the capabilities of human beings that have to be enhanced and the opportunities of human beings to use those capabilities that have to be improved. Human development can be represented by an equation. On the left side are the human capabilities. On the right hand side are the opportunities for applying our capabilities. It is the balance between the two, which helps maximizing human development. The world had been preoccupied with opulence. The paradigm of economic growth seemed to be the end of human development. Fortunately, the fist human development report in 1990 shifted the focus of human development. For the first time, people were put at the center of development, at the center of policy debates, policy dialogues, policy discourses, and at the center of extending the frontier of our understanding of people-centered development.

In Jahan's analysis, he claims that human development is development of the people, for the people, and by the people. We wish to develop human capital and human resources. We intend to ensure that people directly benefits from human development. We welcome people as active participants in the process which influences their lives. Then, Jahan highlights three things about the concept of human development. First, although income is a critical ingredient that enhances human development, it is never an end. Second, human development is a holistic notion. It includes more than basic needs and welfare. Besides, Jahan introduces Human Development Index. While no measure can capture a concept totally and fully, HDI aims to cover 3 basic dimensions of human development: a long and healthy life, knowledge, and decent standard of living. The other type of measure is the breadth measure. It contains different indicators of human development and displays broader information. Jahan and his team rethink the definition of work for human development. It begins to include the creative work like arts and literature. Nonetheless, they also encounter certain issues. Gender-related work is quite important. Agriculture or rural development requires attention because they provide job opportunities in spite of urbanization. Lastly, the work during crisis or post-crisis matters because life must go on.


From collecting data for the past decades, Rosling maintains that the improvement of health and lifespan triggers economic development. Initially, it was only industrialized countries that have low fertility rate with high life expectancy. Gradually, China and Latin-American countries move towards smaller families. India and Indonesia also start to promote family planning and live long lives. Rosling also selects two countries for comparison. The United States was far more advanced than Vietnam when it comes to life expectancy in the 60s. However, after keeping family size and getting longer lives, Vietnam is very close to catch up. It also moves towards market economy which increases the nation's aggregate wealth. The second graph displays the relationship between the child survival rate and GDP per capita. Under this circumstance, Rosling selects South Korea, Brazil, and Uganda. South Korea has made a very obvious advancement in recent dacades, whereas Brazil develops slowly. 

Furthermore, Rosling contends that using averages to measure a country's development is dangerous. Average data is inaccurate because there is a huge disparity within countries. When we split Uganda, a big income gap exists in domestic economy. If we want to analyze poverty in Africa, it is unrealistic to obtain a universal access based on unrepresentative figures. We need more details to contextualize socioeconomic problems.
